[EDU-3751] feat: add select variables (#581)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/observe-journey/select-variables.mdx

---
title: How to select variables on Data Streaming

> description: Find the best option of how to choose your variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Find the best option of how to choose your variables to stream your data.
```

meta_tags: data streaming, logs, variables, stream
namespace: docs_select_variables
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/observe/data-streaming-select-variables/
menu_namespace: observeMenu
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

> The data streamed by Data Streaming to your configured connectors is decided according to the variables you choose to use. Each variable provides a specific information or set of information, and each variable is associated to a specific data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data streamed by Azion **Data Streaming** to your configured connectors is decided according to the variables you choose to use. Each variable provides a specific information or set of information and is associated with a specific data source.
```

You can find all available variables, their descriptions, and examples in the [data source](/en/documentation/products/observe/data-streaming/#data-sources) reference.

> You have the option of using a pre-set template, with an option for each available data source, or using a custom template, so you can decide which variables will be streamed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have the option of using a [pre-set template](using-a-pre-set-template), with an option for each available data source, or using a [custom template](using-a-custom-template), so you can decide which variables will be streamed.
```

> 
> ## Using a pre-set template

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Using a pre-set template
```

> If you're configuring a connector to receive as much information as possible from, for example, an edge application, using a pre-set template could be the best choice. In this case, you'll use the **Edge Applications + WAF Event Collector** template via Real-Time Manager or the **http** template via API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're configuring a connector to receive as much information as possible from, for example, an edge application, using a pre-set template could be the best choice. In this case, you'll use the **Edge Applications + WAF Event Collector** template via Real-Time Manager (RTM) or the **http** template via API.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/use-data-streaming/" text="go to how to configure a streaming guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

> 
> ## Using a custom template

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Using a custom template
```

> If you're configuring a connector with a specific purpose, such as, for example, analyzing logs related to the status of your edge application, you can configure a **Custom Template** via Real-Time Manager or a **temaplate_model** via API. Creating a customizable template allows you to choose from the [list of available variables](/en/documentation/products/observe/data-streaming/#data-sources) the ones you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure a **Custom Template** via Real-Time Manager or a **temaplate_model** via API. It's recommended for cases when you're configuring a connector with a specific purpose, such as analyzing logs related to the status of your edge application. Creating a customizable template allows you to choose from the [list of available variables](/en/documentation/products/observe/data-streaming/#data-sources) the ones you want to use.
```

> In this case, you could use, for example, the variables `$status`, `$proxy_status`, and `$upstream_status`. You'll also be able to edit the streaming and add new variables if you find they're not providing all the information you require.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, you could use, for example, the variables `$status`, `$proxy_status`, and `$upstream_status`. You'll also be able to edit the streaming and add new variables if you find they aren't providing all the information you require.
```

The data streamed by **Data Streaming** to your configured connectors is decided according to the variables you choose to use. Each variable provides a specific information or set of information and is associated with a specific data source.

You can find all available variables, their descriptions, and examples in the [data source](/en/documentation/products/observe/data-streaming/#data-sources) reference.

You have the option of using a [pre-set template](using-a-pre-set-template), with an option for each available data source, or using a [custom template](using-a-custom-template), so you can decide which variables will be streamed.

---

## Using a pre-set template

If you're configuring a connector to receive as much information as possible from, for example, an edge application, using a pre-set template could be the best choice. In this case, you'll use the **Edge Applications + WAF Event Collector** template via Real-Time Manager (RTM) or the **http** template via API.

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/use-data-streaming/" text="go to how to configure a streaming guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

## Using a custom template

> If you're configuring a connector with a specific purpose, such as, for example, analyzing logs related to the status of your edge application, you can configure a **Custom Template** via Real-Time Manager or a **temaplate_model** via API. Creating a customizable template allows you to choose from the [list of available variables](/en/documentation/products/observe/data-streaming/#data-sources) the ones you want to use.

Author: ```suggestion
If you're configuring a connector with a specific purpose, such as, for example, analyzing logs related to the status of your edge application, you can configure a **Custom Template** via RTM or a **temaplate_model** via API. Creating a customizable template allows you to choose from the [list of available variables](/en/documentation/products/observe/data-streaming/#data-sources) the ones you want to use.
```
